\abstract{

The theory of tensor categories has found applications across various fields,
including representation theory \cite{egno/tensor-cats}, quantum field theory
(conformal in 2 dimensions \cite{schweigert/rcft-tft} \cite{yadav/gv-voa}, and
topological in 3 and 4 dimensions), quantum invariants of low-dimensional
objects \cite{turaev/big-book} \cite{beliakova/low-dim-topo}, topological
phases of matter \cite{levin-wen/string-net} \cite{kong/topological-order}
\cite{ng/md-rank-11}, and topological quantum computation
\cite{wang/topo-quantum-compute}.

A fundamental construction in the theory of tensor categories is the balanced
tensor product, first formally defined in \cite{douglas/balanced-product} via
a universal property. The existence of balanced tensor products has been known
via a few different algebraic constructions: categories of
modules \cite{douglas/balanced-product}, internal Hom
spaces \cite{davydov/picard}, and generalized categorical centers
\cite{etingof/fusion-cat-and-homotopy} \cite{kirillov/fact-homo-4d-tqft}
\cite{hoek/master}. However, their algebraic nature limits one's ability to
reason topologically and pictorially.

In contrast, a skein description of balanced tensor products has been known
for some time and widely utilized in physics papers. Yet, to the best of our
knowledge, a fully rigorous mathematical proof remains unavailable, except in
certain special cases. The primary contribution of this paper is to establish
a rigorous proof for the well-known heuristic that "the balanced tensor
product can be understood in a skein-theoretic way." We provide this proof for
both the semisimple and non-semisimple cases.

In future work, we plan to build on this theory to establish a connection
between the Turaev-Viro state sum model \cite{viro/turaev-viro-model} and the
3-functor arising from the classification of fully extended topological field
theories (\cite{lurie/tqft}, \cite{douglas/dualizable-tensor-categories}).

}
